---
layout: post
category: japan
---

## Day 1 - Osaka KIX 

Turbulence was never my thing. How do you expect a great monkey to remain calm in an aluminum tin 10,000 meters above the ground? Yet, seeing the first lights on the Japanese mainland calms my nerves. Now it is only a couple of dozen minutes until I land, and I have the great opportunity to navigate myself in a new culture. Just before landing, I feel nothing, just a slight hint of anticipation in my stomach. Let's hope that Kona survived the trip as well as I did.

## Day 2 - Osaka Bike Check

What hubris to think I shouldn’t worry about spare parts, the internet, maps, etc. On a basic level, everything will work; it’s the little details that still need fine-tuning. I got the cycle up to speed and managed to clock my first cheeky 30k. Overall, it’s a lovely steed. What a pleasure it is to ride through the busy yet quiet streets of Osaka.

## Day 3 - Osaka Preperations

What a day. Little update on the people I have met so far. Jeroen, the funky Vlaamse expat, is definitely the definition of a fun guy. Bartek, a Polish software developer, has a big passion for drift cars. He's the “let’s have a beer” Polish guy and helped me make progress with my blog. Jorge, a Colombian architect who lives in Stuttgart, loves Japanese shopping. According to him, you cannot be old enough for a Nintendo Switch. Happy to have had two conversations with Japanese folks. Hiro, the hostel manager, was quite cool about me blocking his hostel entrance with my bike for two nights. Mio gave me advice on Japanese soul food (Okonomiyaki, お好み焼き) and vocabulary.

I finally found a pretty neat route for my travels, thanks to Erin. The Californian expat is the owner of a sweet bike rental, who tipped the scale for my route idea. The plan is to create an infinity sign through Japan, initially heading southeast along the Kumano Kudo Trail towards Mount Fuji. Then, I will avoid the Tokyo labyrinth and go straight up through the Japanese Alps. I’ll turn west again when I reach the coast to land in Kyoto, traveling north along Lake Biwa. Now back again in Kansai, I will take the ferry to Shikoku, pass through to Kyushu, and finally return over Hiroshima and the Shimanami Kaido to depart again from KIX.

Now it was time to discover more of Osaka and seriously put my Kona to the test. During my ride along the Yodogawa River, I found out that my bicycle is driving like a charm. The only problem is my steering wheel and my saddle. Gosh, my butt hurts. I need to think about a solution to maintain buttock peace.

## Day 4 - Osaka Shopping

Rebuying a laptop in Japan is pretty cheap. I found a Lenovo ThinkPad T480s that runs immaculately. Back at the hostel, I left my vocabulary book. The hostel manager, Hiro, found the book and made fun of me for my "Watashi wa Tarik desu" entry, which is definitely a funny memory. Also, Eiko comparing me to her boyfriend, who made her a bike, was quite heartwarming. Jorge comparing sleeping hostel guests snoring to dinosaurs was pretty funny.

I can’t wait to be on the road tomorrow.

- 2 small bags: 3 + 3 kg
- 2 big bags: 4 + 6 kg
- 1 long bag: 3 kg

## Day 5 - Start of the Journey

What was I thinking? This must have been the most challenging task I have ever undertaken in my life. All signs were good as the grey clouds graced the skyline of Osaka, I left for Koyasan. The route was planned the day before, a 62 km tour. What could go wrong? Easy peasy. This held true for the first 45 km, but me not understanding what climbing a mountain entails, I was in for a sincere awakening. My god, the hubris. I was really in for a reality check. I think this is what pilgrimage routes are for: one can only appreciate how nice 30 meters of straight road can be when faced with 25-30% inclines. This could have easily been my demise — failing on day one. Setting the tone was my intention, but gravity the teacher.

When this elementary school appeared, I thought it was too good to be true. I was treated to specialty coffee, unbelievable hospitality, new jewelry, and a place to sleep. This was one of the best days of my life.

- Cats Eye Anime show
- Next time I come to Japan, I should bring little Nijntje
- Keiichi Yano
- Kimio
- Crazy boss Yumi Kinugasa

## Day 6 - Koyasan 

Is this place even real? After a great night's rest and a coffee in the morning with crazy boss Yumi and Keiichi, my goal to reach Koya was clear. At 10:20 in the mausoleum, an important ritual starts, which I wouldn’t want to miss in the world. Driving through the town, I wondered about every single meter how a village can be so rich in culture. The energy was high after reaching the inital goal; tomorrow on to the next step: Ryujin Onsen.

Sleeping outside is somewhat nerve-wracking, considering the outside noises and the most creepy 9 pm horror chime. What helps me is that I know that I am allowed to sleep here and nobody really saw me. Animosity crime is therefore not possible; how would they know I’m German? Also, Japanese people are the most heartwarming I have ever met. I don’t know about the authorities, but I don’t see how this should be majorly different. All that these folk care about is that the trash is picked up. As long as I do that and my newly picked up good luck charm from the shrine is working, that should be enough to get me through.

## Day 7 - Koyasan to Ryujin 

Koyasan is a place of tranquility and ravishing traditional beauty. I find something so soothing in the forest mausoleum; couldn’t this be the most tranquil way to find your everlasting peace? Except for all the tourists walking by every day :). Anyhow, my legs are burning, so what’s the best thing to do? Climb from 800 to 1290m and enjoy an insane downhill ride. Occasionally, I had to fix a tire because my stupid brain couldn’t operate carefully enough to not break the air vent. 

At this point, thanks to Steffi, who warned me to bring a spare tire <3. Definitely always on the packing list.

I arrived around 16:00 in Ryujin, a place said to have the best onsen water in all of Japan. If this was true or a blunt marketing trick, I was about to find out. Beforehand, I checked with the roadside station if I was allowed to stay for a night. Talking to them for half an hour that I am self-sufficient, don’t think animal encounter is a realistic chance, and I really, really am fine with not having dinner, I could enjoy my first night of rest. Besides the fact that my mattress deflated every two hours. Still, luxury in my eyes. The onsen was around 4,50 euro and a towel for 50 cents that I could keep was included.

Along the river, the facility was gracing the riverbed, and I entered the separated male area. I got the gist of an onsen quite quickly. It is a place where you deep clean yourself. Ten little chairs with a bucket in front are provided with a mirror, soap, and shampoo. After that, entry to three steaming hot, either stone or wooden tiled floors was permitted. A gracious choice between 46 or 48 degree C was provided. How Anna said delightfully, the onsen turned me into a strawberry mochi. As the nights turn in early in Japan, I made my way back home and fell asleep. Now off to the coast!

## Day 8 - Ryujin to Tanabe 

Right off the gate, I took advantage of my altitude situation and fired downhill for the last kilometers I initially climbed during my first day trip. Yes, I am leaving the mountains for the coast. My legs are scorching from the steep inclines they have never seen before. The road was relatively straightforward, therefore a lot of time to spend in Tanabe. The night before, my mattress deflated every hour or so, so I chose extravagance and luxury and have a bed in a homestay.

Koji was somewhat of an impatient fellow but yet very accommodating. He showed me the way to a top-notch washing salon just around the corner. These Japanese electronics are something else. In what felt to be 2400 rounds per minute, my clothes remained in pristine condition. Later, I took my bike yet again for a second onsen visit, just 10 km further away. This one was located just at the beach, and friendly conversations with locals were in order. After that, you guessed it, yet another onsen visit. Why not? Beforehand had some amazing ramen while I figured out Japanese ticketing systems.

Cooked like that strawberry mochi, I made my way home and stopped along the road at the drippiest 2nd hand store. The Japanese shopping experience is something else in every regard.

## Day 9 - Tanabe to Tanji 

That homestay bed was definitely the right call. Following the final touches, the bike was ready to grace the road once again. A 100 km journey was on the menu, but of course, I messed up the first 5 km and had to return. I can’t even blame it on Komoot. The destination was clear: Nachi Falls. Boy, oh boy, was I raw-dogging this one. I had a 1000 m elevation gain, my wrists and butt hurt tremendously, and I faced a 40 km/h headwind. This was, of course, paired with never-ending rainfall. From a bike packer's perspective, it was a free shower.

But I maintained a steady pace and managed to arrive early at the temple. Here, a miscommunication occurred. Having asked the day before about the stay and the price, I understood it to be 500 yen, but upon arrival, I was told it would be 5000 yen. This was a Buddhist temple asking me for a tent and two toilet visits for 35 euros! Luckily, following the trend of this journey, Fuki, who worked at the temple, also disagreed with the steep price. She offered to take me up the mountains, introduce me to her family, provide dinner—even a bathtub—and let me set up my tent in the yard. 

I had never received a more intriguing invitation, so it took just 2 minutes to load the car and leave the temple in the rearview mirror. Without this encounter, I wouldn’t have visited the most pristine, tranquil mountain region just beside the coast. She showed me the rice terraces, tea cultivation, and we had an amazing overview of the valley. Upon arriving at her house, I was treated with the utmost hospitality by her family: three young children and her husband, Kenji. They even prepared a traditional Japanese bath fueled with dried wood. We ate together, cracked some jokes, and went to sleep. Next trip: Nachi Falls, which the family practically lives next to ;).


## Day 10 - Minamihiranoku 

Late entry for a good reason. The most loving family hosted me for two nights and essentially gave me homely comfort that was under the surface needing a bit. Kenji is a charcoal maker, for water filtration and specialized cooking. Fuki works many jobs, at the temple, as a beekeeper, rice farmer, but first and foremost she is the engine of the family. She does it all, from cooking six different meals to talking in perfect English to me while her youngest five-year-old hangs on her; the smile on her face never left. Making okonomiyaki, grilled chicken on the shichirin, sashimi just on the fly, tried my first natto, umeboshi, and satsumaimo. They shared everything with me, even the traditional bathtub, which is more like a big pot, powered by cedar wood. We had sake and Sapporo, great conversations, and hopefully will see each other again.

## Day 11 - Owase 

Today I left my favorite Japanese family to pursue my partial goal of arriving at the bottom of Mount Fuji. Besides my smooth ride, I got pulled over by the cops for riding through a red light. They caught me red-handed, but in the end, were just curious what in God's name I was doing here in the middle of nowhere on a bike. After explaining to me a red light signal and making sure I understood, they let me go off on my merry way again.

For the comforts of laundry and drying my super wet tent, I visited a campsite with gravel areas to escape the morning dew. Let's see how the plan will turn out.

## Day 12 - Ise 

This was kind of the first in a series of three powerful full steam rides. The routes are not fluctuating in altitude that much anymore, so a steady pace is the aim. When I arrived in Ise, I knew beforehand where I could camp. The English guide Olivia at the road station (Michi-no-Eki, 道の駅), which are absolute Swiss army tools, elaborated on where I could spend a night for free and completely legal. After an initial check of the camping ground 6 km before Ise, I knew this night was going to be a moist one. Nevertheless, having cycled that much the previous days, a deeply relaxing onsen visit was in order. Ise can provide this for an entry fee of 400 yen. At night, back at the camping ground, dew was already settling on my skin.

*To be continued in Chubu*

## Day 27 - Along Lake Biwa to Kyoto

After the Pacific Coastal and Japanese Alps Road, the third national cycling route of my journey lay in front of me, around 90 km around the shore of Lake Biwa (琵琶湖, Biwa-ko). Right at the start, I got ushered by an elderly Japanese man into his backyard where he proudly showed me his beautiful wooden patio. From here I could use the binoculars to spot the action on the lake. Nevertheless, not for long as there were many kilometers to schrubb.

Halfway I stumbled on an anomaly, since again there was a small village clearly affected by demographic change, in the middle of nowhere, yet one house had a customer queue peeking out onto the street. Obviously, all my alarm bells went off as this could mean only one thing: Delicious food for a fair price. Not knowing what to expect, I got asked to remove my shoes and walk up the elegantly worked wooden stairs into a seating area where only a small pillow on the ground could comfort my sore butt. I could read sashimi (さしみ) in hiragana, so the pointed finger on the menu and the phrase "kore kudasai" followed.

Half an hour wait without knowing what to expect and then a tray full of party zeit arrived on my 30 cm high table. Everything the ocean provides was offered at a price around 13 euros, almost a Big Mac menu in the Netherlands. This provided the necessary fuel to power me through to Kyoto. I arrived at dawn and used the night for a walk to hush some glimpses of the city.

## Day 28 - Return to Osaka

Since Kyoto is overrun by tourists and therefore hostels are a hot commodity, I decided to leave for Osaka straight away and connect the dots. On my second day, I attempted to cycle into Kyoto to visit a bamboo forest, but I had to break off because of diminishing daylight. As a Japanese cyclist I met on the road told me, upon request for an assessment, it would be a shame not to be able to gaze at the full beauty of the bamboo. Fast forward to today, there was ample sunlight, so I was completely ready for the beauty of the bamboo.

Calmly, I made my way along the Yodogawa River to enter the metropolitan area of Osaka. Luckily, a night at my first hostel, The Pax, was available. (Actually, I booked the day after, but they were kind enough to lay out a futon in the common area for me). Around midday, I passed by Osaka Bicycle Rental where Erin was working on some bikes. He initially helped me lay out the route, so a friendly recap was in order before I was off to my hostel again.

Finally, marking the first half of my journey done, I arrived at the Pax where Vin was sitting outside greeting me. It was an amazing feeling to see some familiarity again, and Eriko and Hiro were also happy to see me. At night, I met up with Adam, who was the only bikepacker I met during my travels in Shizuoka. I made good use of the British fellowman, so we went out for some beers to celebrate.

## Day 29 - Meeting Yumi and Yano Again

This day was truly special. As my journey started on Day 5, I met Yumi and Yano in the middle of nowhere as I left Osaka for Koyasan. In the mountains of the Kumano Kodo pilgrimage route, there was an elementary school hosting a coffee distillery event for the weekend. Yumi and Yano were there, and we became instant friends. 24 days later, I gave it a shot to contact Yano, as they both normally live in Osaka. He instantly replied to me, and we agreed to meet at the Shin Osaka Metro Station.

So much joy in one afternoon! We had lunch together, obviously had artisan coffee at a friend's roastery in a shopping mall. After that, we visited their little shop where they sell their T-shirt designs. We didn’t stop laughing. After being on the road alone for a long time, this feeling of familiarity was truly needed.

## Day 30 - Break

From Day 30 to Day 33, I allowed myself a break to physically recharge. I'll use this time to map out my next route, maybe hit the golf range, and visit as many 2nd Street stores as possible. 

