---
layout: post
category: japan
---

## Day 1 - Osaka KIX - 15.10 - 19:12

Turbulence was never my thing. How do you expect a great monkey to remain calm in an aluminum tin 10,000 meters above the ground? Yet, seeing the first lights on the Japanese mainland calms my nerves. Now it is only a couple of dozen minutes until I land, and I have the great opportunity to navigate myself in a new culture. Just before landing, I feel nothing, just a slight hint of anticipation in my stomach. Let's hope that Kona survived the trip as well as I did.

## Day 2 - Osaka - 17.10

What hubris to think I shouldn’t worry about spare parts, the internet, maps, etc. On a basic level, everything will work; it’s the little details that still need fine-tuning. I got the cycle up to speed and managed to clock my first cheeky 30k. Overall, it’s a lovely steed. What a pleasure it is to ride through the busy yet quiet streets of Osaka.

## Day 3 - Osaka - 18.10 - 04:33

What a day. Little update on the people I have met so far. Jeroen, the funky Vlaamse expat, is definitely the definition of a fun guy. Bartek, a Polish software developer, has a big passion for drift cars. He's the “let’s have a beer” Polish guy and helped me make progress with my blog. Jorge, a Colombian architect who lives in Stuttgart, loves Japanese shopping. According to him, you cannot be old enough for a Nintendo Switch. Happy to have had two conversations with Japanese folks. Hiro, the hostel manager, was quite cool about me blocking his hostel entrance with my bike for two nights. Mio gave me advice on Japanese soul food (Okonomiyaki, お好み焼き) and vocabulary.

I finally found a pretty neat route for my travels, thanks to Gareth. The Californian expat is the owner of a sweet bike rental, who tipped the scale for my route idea. The plan is to create an infinity sign through Japan, initially heading southeast along the Kumano Kudo Trail towards Mount Fuji. Then, I will avoid the Tokyo labyrinth and go straight up through the Japanese Alps. I’ll turn west again when I reach the coast to land in Kyoto, traveling north along Lake Biwa. Now back again in Kansai, I will take the ferry to Shikoku, pass through to Kyushu, and finally return over Hiroshima and the Shimanami Kaido to depart again from KIX.

Now it was time to discover more of Osaka and seriously put my Kona to the test. During my ride along the Yodogawa River, I found out that my bicycle is driving like a charm. The only problem is my steering wheel and my saddle. Gosh, my butt hurts. I need to think about a solution to maintain buttock peace.

## Day 4 - Osaka - 19.10 

Rebuying a laptop in Japan is pretty cheap. I found a Lenovo ThinkPad T480s that runs immaculately. Back at the hostel, I left my vocabulary book. The hostel manager, Hiro, found the book and made fun of me for my "Watashi wa Tarik desu" entry, which is definitely a funny memory. Also, Eiko comparing me to her boyfriend, who made her a bike, was quite heartwarming. Jorge comparing weirdos snoring to dinosaurs was pretty funny.

I can’t wait to be on the road tomorrow.

- 2 small bags: 3 + 3 kg
- 2 big bags: 4 + 6 kg
- 1 long bag: 3 kg

## Day 5 - 540 m - Road to Koya

What was I thinking? This must have been the most challenging task I have ever undertaken in my life. All signs were good as the grey clouds graced the skyline of Osaka. I left for Koya, with a route planned the day before for a 62 km tour. What could go wrong? Easy peasy. This held true for the first 45 km, but not understanding what climbing a mountain entails, I was in for a sincere awakening. My god, the hubris. I was really in for a reality check. I think this is what pilgrimage routes are for: one can only appreciate how nice 30 meters of straight road can be when faced with 25-30% inclines. This could have easily been my demise—failing on day one. Setting the tone was my intention, but gravity, the teacher, had other plans.

When this elementary school appeared, I thought it was too good to be true. I was treated to specialty coffee, unbelievable hospitality, new jewelry, and a place to sleep. This was one of the best days of my life.

- Cats Eye Anime show
- Next time I come to Japan, I should bring little Nijntje
- Keiichi Yano
- Kimio
- Crazy boss Yumi Kinugasa

## Day 6 - Koya - 800 m 

Is this place even real? After a great night's rest and a coffee in the morning with crazy boss Yumi and Keiichi, my goal to reach Koya was clear. At 10:20 in the mausoleum, an important ritual starts, which I wouldn’t want to miss in the world. Driving through the town, I wondered about every single meter how a village can be so rich in culture. The energy was high after reaching the first goal; tomorrow on to the Ryujin Onsen.

Sleeping outside is somewhat nerve-wracking, considering the outside noises and the most creepy 9 pm horror chime. What helps me is that I know that I am allowed to sleep here and nobody really saw me. Animosity crime is therefore not possible; how would they know I’m German? Also, Japanese people are the most heartwarming I have ever met. I don’t know about the authorities, but I don’t see how this should be majorly different. All that these folk care about is that the trash is picked up. As long as I do that and my newly picked up good luck charm from the shrine is working, that should be enough to get me through.

## Day 7 - Koyasan to Ryujin - 1290m - 21.10

Koyasan is a place of tranquility and ravishing traditional beauty. I find something so soothing in the forest mausoleum; couldn’t this be the most tranquil way to find your everlasting peace? Except for all the tourists walking by every day :). Anyhow, my legs are burning, so what’s the best thing to do? Climb from 800 to 1290m and enjoy an insane downhill ride. Occasionally, I had to fix a tire because my stupid brain couldn’t operate carefully enough to not break the air vent. 

At this point, thanks to Steffi, who warned me to bring a spare tire. Definitely always on the packing list.

I arrived around 16:00 in Ryujin, a place said to have the best onsen water in all of Japan. If this was true or a blunt marketing trick, I was about to find out. Beforehand, I checked with the roadside station if I was allowed to stay for a night. Talking to them for half an hour that I am self-sufficient, don’t think animal encounter is a realistic chance, and I really, really am fine with not having dinner, I could enjoy my first night of rest. Besides the fact that my mattress deflated every two hours. Still, luxury in my eyes. The onsen was around 4,50 euro and a towel for 50 cents that I could keep was included.

Along the river, the facility was gracing the riverbed, and I entered the separated male area. I got the gist of an onsen quite quickly. It is a place where you deep clean yourself. Ten little chairs with a bucket in front are provided with a mirror, soap, and shampoo. After that, entry to three steaming hot, either stone or wooden tiled floors was permitted. A gracious choice between 46 or 48 degree C was provided. How Anna said delightfully, the onsen turned me into a strawberry mochi. As the nights turn in early in Japan, I made my way back home and fell asleep. Now off to the coast!

## Day 8 - Ryujin to Tanabe - 23.10 - 5m

Right off the gate, I took advantage of my altitude situation and fired downhill for the last kilometers I initially climbed during my first day trip. Yes, I am leaving the mountains for the coast. My legs are scorching from the steep inclines they have never seen before. The road was relatively straightforward, therefore a lot of time to spend in Tanabe. The night before, my mattress deflated every hour or so, so I chose extravagance and luxury and have a bed in a homestay.

Koji was somewhat of an impatient fellow but yet very accommodating. He showed me the way to a top-notch washing salon just around the corner. These Japanese electronics are something else. In what felt to be 2400 rounds per minute, my clothes remained in pristine condition. Later, I took my bike yet again for a second onsen visit, just 10 km further away. This one was located just at the beach, and friendly conversations with locals were in order. After that, you guessed it, yet another onsen visit. Why not? Beforehand had some amazing ramen while I figured out Japanese ticketing systems.

Cooked like that strawberry mochi, I made my way home and stopped along the road at the drippiest 2nd hand store. The Japanese shopping experience is something else in every regard.

## Day 9 - Tanabe to Tanji - 1000 m delta

That homestay bed was definitely the right call. Following the final touches, the bike was ready to grace the road once again. A 100 km journey was on the menu, but of course, I messed up the first 5 km and had to return. I can’t even blame it on Komoot. The destination was clear: Nachi Falls. Boy, oh boy, was I raw-dogging this one. I had a 1000 m elevation gain, my wrists and butt hurt tremendously, and I faced a 40 km/h headwind. This was, of course, paired with never-ending rainfall. From a bike packer's perspective, it was a free shower.

But I maintained a steady pace and managed to arrive early at the temple. Here, a miscommunication occurred. Having asked the day before about the stay and the price, I understood it to be 500 yen, but upon arrival, I was told it would be 5000 yen. This was a Buddhist temple asking me for a tent and two toilet visits for 35 euros! Luckily, following the trend of this journey, Fuki, who worked at the temple, also disagreed with the steep price. She offered to take me up the mountains, introduce me to her family, provide dinner—even a bathtub—and let me set up my tent in the yard. I had never received a more intriguing invitation, so it took just 2 minutes to load the car and leave the temple in the rearview mirror. Without this encounter, I wouldn’t have visited the most pristine, tranquil mountain region just beside the coast. She showed me the rice terraces, tea cultivation, and we had an amazing overview of the valley. Upon arriving at her house, I was treated with the utmost hospitality by her family: three young children and her husband, Kenji. They even prepared a traditional Japanese bath fueled with dried wood. We ate together, cracked some jokes, and went to sleep. Next trip: Nachi Falls, which the family practically lives next to ;).


## Day 10 - Minamihiranoku - 25.10

Late entry for a good reason. The most loving family hosted me for two nights and essentially gave me homely comfort that was under the surface needing a bit. Kenji is a charcoal maker, for water filtration and specialized cooking. Fuki works many jobs, at the temple, as a beekeeper, rice farmer, but first and foremost she is the engine of the family. She does it all, from cooking six different meals to talking in perfect English to me while her youngest five-year-old hangs on her; the smile on her face never left. Making okonomiyaki, grilled chicken on the shichirin, sashimi just on the fly, tried my first natto, umeboshi, and satsumaimo. They shared everything with me, even the traditional bathtub, which is more like a big pot, powered by cedar wood. We had sake and Sapporo, great conversations, and hopefully will see each other again.

## Day 11 - Owase - 25.10

Today I left my favorite Japanese family to pursue my partial goal of arriving at the bottom of Mount Fuji. Besides my smooth ride, I got pulled over by the cops for riding through a red light. They caught me red-handed, but in the end, were just curious what in God's name I was doing here in the middle of nowhere on a bike. After explaining to me a red light signal and making sure I understood, they let me go off on my merry way again.

For the comforts of laundry and drying my super wet tent, I visited a campsite with gravel areas to escape the morning dew. Let's see how the plan will turn out.

## Day 12 - Ise 

This was kind of the first in a series of three powerful full steam rides. The routes are not fluctuating in altitude that much anymore, so a steady pace is the aim. When I arrived in Ise, I knew beforehand where I could camp. The English guide Olivia at the road station (Michi-no-Eki, 道の駅), which are absolute Swiss army tools, elaborated on where I could spend a night for free and completely legal. After an initial check of the camping ground 6 km before Ise, I knew this night was going to be a moist one. Nevertheless, having cycled that much the previous days, a deeply relaxing onsen visit was in order. Ise can provide this for an entry fee of 400 yen. At night, back at the camping ground, dew was already settling on my skin.

## Day 13 - Ferry to Toyohashi

This night was definitely not restful. The wetness penetrated from all sides through my tent. The start of the day was around 5:00 when the first sparkles of daylight emerged. It’s never a good feeling to pack up everything completely soaked. Nevertheless, the show must go on, and after 20 km I arrived in Toba to take the ferry over a 50-minute ride for 20 euros, including the bike, to skip the urban area of Nagoya. Arriving at the land tongue on the other side, it was 40 km of plain straight drive, which made me realize how much I miss the mountains.

There is just something to completely damaging your body ascending a mountain, with the mindset that you will break that mountain and not vice versa, over flat areas. I arrived in Toyohashi, a city where the economic bubble burst in the 90s is quite plainly visible. The city functions as the export harbor of Toyota, and all over the city are old billboards of the incumbent hardware giants like Toshiba, Panasonic, and Hitachi. 

Built up 50 years ago looking like 30 years in the future at the time, nowadays the wetlands have done their piece to them. Did I mention wetlands? That’s right; my tent is still incredibly wet, so a hotel room was the best solution in this city. The Dormy Inn was kind enough to host me and my camping gear, and the room was turned into a drying station before I could say arigato.

## Day 14 - Coasting to Shizuoka

The plans were ambitious, knowing that Komoot calculated a 119 km ride from Toyohashi to Shizuoka by going inland; I was estimating around 150 km by going along the coast. The legs felt great even with all the mileage in, and I could smell the volcanic ashes in the air sparking my desire to finally see Mount Fuji. Hence, it was a no-brainer to make some distance on these flat lands spurred by an amazing tailwind.

It should be a day with many drawbacks. Firstly, my gears started to shift in a deliberate manner. This is unsettling considering that my energy management relies on this part. Secondly, the Japanese government decided exactly now to expand on their tsunami deflection infrastructure at the cost of offering the Pacific coastal bike lane to the ocean's gods. By pushing my bike through 2 construction sites and in the act of this cutting up my finger on the gear shifter, my mood was somewhat cranky. Then, trespassing a cyclist tunnel, I almost bottle-flipped not seeing the extremely thin layer of mud and water on the ground. So the only thing that can improve the day is a bowl of ramen.

When arriving in Shizuoka, I was staying at the most lovely hostel run by two girls. I extended my stay and took a day off to explore the city and see if I could still use my legs as a means of transportation.

## Day 15 - Shizuoka Off Day

Just cruising around town, having dinner with Mizuoka and Adam, learning about Japanese work culture. Core kudasai is now also in my vocabulary.

## Day 16 - Finally arriving in Fuji, but where is the Mount?

The initial ride was just 30 km, and arriving rather early at the hostel, I was greeted by Koichiro and the hostel owner. Both had cool bikes, and before I knew it, Koichiro interviewed me about my bicycle. Turned out he was a reporter for TREK bicycles and covers a wide range of cycling activities including MTB and the Japanese indoor racing team. He invited me for a rice bowl, and we had a great conversation. He showed me around the office, how dried fish is made, and the cup of artisan coffee is mandatory. Then I sneak peeked into Fuji, but the clouds covered the view. I hope to get more lucky tomorrow.

## Day 17 - 1000 KM and Mt Fuji spotted

The day started somewhat late at 8:00 because I caught a full night's sleep, which was definitely needed to prepare for the coming itinerary. The hostel was very neat and the bed comfy for Japanese futon standards, so with a rested body and mind, the bicycle was ready in no time for take off. The sky was clear today, so there was no chance I couldn’t see Mt Fuji, I thought. Well, I thought right; just after passing the first bridge, there she was in all her Hokusai beauty. Of course, this year is the first time since 130 years that there is no snow on the peak due to the warm summer. It’s just the thing that makes it look iconic, but I can say first-handedly that it doesn’t take anything away from the spectacularness of this volcano. The ideal photo spot was at the heritage museum where a huge shrine gate and a water basin allowed for the ideal picture. After that, the real work. There was a 55 km tour with a 1000 m ascent on the menu with a constant but steady increase in elevation. After an hour, a random car stopped and the driver waved at me. I rubbed my eyes; how could somebody recognize me here? But it was my friend made a day before, Koichiri, loaded with his BMX in the back and a new lawn mower who tapped my back for the coming tour. The daily goal was Lake Motosu, which is the scene depicted on the 1000 yen bill. The day went by, and this kind of ascension is nicer than the raw dogging of Koyasan. I found the campsite quickly and could take the scenic walk around the lake, spot some eagles with my binoculars. Next stop is Chino.

