---
layout: post
category: japan
---

<a id="day-46"></a>

## Day 46 - Drop Mics, Not Bombs

Entering Hiroshima today was hard to grasp. On one hand, the realization that my time in Japan was drawing to a close started to settle in. On the other hand, almost 80 years ago, one of humankind's most gruesome events occurred right at the heart of today’s destination.

(Atomic Bomb dome picture)

Without any prior input or explanation of how, the title of this post appeared in my head, and I felt my body ignite, pushing me to give it my all on today’s route. Spurred by the classic 60/60 tail-to-headwind ratio, I was slicing through the wind regardless. I clocked my best average time today. 

(Komoot)

The finish line of today’s journey was the Atomic Dome. I just had to perform, and I self-affirmingly did. At the hostel, great conversations with the well-spoken Japanese owner followed. I truly appreciated his amazing food tips around the city and ended up going back to the same restaurant three times because the food was just that good.

## Day 47 - Museum Day

Stationary for a day, I took the opportunity to fully explore the memorial park surrounding the atomic bomb site, including a visit to the museum.

(Eternal Fire picture)

## Day 48 - Shimanami Shenanigans Pt.1

The day started rather unspectacularly. Having to leave a city with 1.2 million inhabitants is nerve-wracking due to the traffic lights. Regardless, I was gliding over the surface like a big ballpoint pen over a piece of paper. The idea was to turn in late at a free campsite north of Onomichi. In practice, I almost arrived at the destination shortly after midday.

In a spontaneous sequence, I found a ferry dock on the right-hand side around Mihara, and before I knew it, the phrase "Ichi ticket kudasai" left my mouth. This was great! Just before my reunion with Amy, I had the chance to scope out some cool spots on the island and start the shenanigans. The afternoon started off with some innocent fun before, at night, I could see myself getting crushed like walnuts in a Russian nutcracker head. But this will be the story for the next day. For now, Setoda was on my itinerary and turned out to be a real diamond.

(Onsen Picture)

The aesthetics of the local onsen, combined with a 2,500 yen (16 euro) sashimi set that is not from this world, left little to desire.

(Sashimi Set)

Oh yeah, an otherworldly beautiful shrine wouldn’t hurt either. I kept myself satisfied with the gaze onto the front gate, knowing that the whole experience would be better in companionship. So, I went for the art museum instead, where I found some beautiful postcards that I could procrastinate sending off until the second-to-last day of my journey. Exhausted from the day, it was about time to turn in for the night and find a good spot to put up my tent.

The Setoda Sunset Beach Campground sounds exactly dreamy enough. Upon arrival, the daylight was fading. At the reception, a girl my age, looking like she was definitely not enjoying being there with every molecule of her body, crossed every service I would need to take on a piece of paper. Shortly, the amount accumulated to 3,000 yen. I asked, "Isn’t this a bit steep?" She told me to wait at my spot, and from her expression, I didn’t have much hope of receiving a discount.

Yet, suddenly, an elderly man entered the reception and asked me, “No money?”

“No money,” I repeated, and he mumbled, “Follow.” He chose one of the many bicycles on the campground for rental at the famous Shimanami Kaido course. We drove past the long beach, just at the end where two warehouses appeared. He said, “Leave before 8, the boss comes,” and pointed to a spot in front of warehouse number two for me to set up my tent. No money was required, and I gratefully said, “Arigato gozaimasu.”

I enjoyed the last rays of sunshine and set up my tent. I slept early, as the day had been long. I put in my AirPods and cocooned in my sleeping bag.

## Day 49 - Shimanami Shenanigans Pt.2

Falling asleep like a first grader on his first day of school, I remember being happy to have found a spot for free where the locals still knew I resided — a perfect combination for a good night rest. Just that I got torn out of my sleep, and the first conscious stimulus was my eyes perceiving my tent glowing in an omnipresent red color. The second stimulus was an instinctive neural shot into my hands to grab my AirPods, and just as the sound-canceling waves evaporated, a roaring engine sound went through my ears. Like struck by lightning, I immediately flat-jumped out of my tent and caught a breather. Stuck in my fight-or-flight response, I hid behind a cleaning station to assess the situation.

It was only after five minutes that a bright light on the surrounding street closed in at a continuous pace. One left, then another one before the last turn, which led the Daihatsu pickup truck right in front of the gate sandwiched between the two warehouses. A 1.70m tall, smoking Japanese fellow grabbed two bags from the trunk and dropped them in the warehouse. Then he entered the vehicle, drove closer toward me, and finally reversed toward my tent. The dark green tent appears black at night, and at the moment he closed in to within 30cm of my tent, I understood what supernova appeared inside my tent. I almost made an episode of the MTV show *1000 Dumb Ways to Die*, being completely crushed by a pickup truck in my sleep.

As soon as the red lights disappeared into the night, I could only think about my interrupted rest. During the night, I wasn’t able to completely process my scare and luck, and it was only two days later that I randomly told Amy this story. Her appropriate response was: *Dude, why didn’t you tell me yesterday?*

Back to today in the timeline: I went for a 50km ride around the many islands of the Shimanami Kaido to meet Amy at the southwest end from Fukuyama. Five ferry rides later, she arrived on the Kaido islands, and we gave it a full send at sunset.