---
layout: post
category: japan
---

<a id="day-34"></a>

## Day 33 - We out here in Shikoku

Finally, I left my domesticated self behind and hit the road again. To survive the 60 km ride through Osaka’s urban jungle, I reminded myself to take every sensory input with a grain of salt. Stoplights, like a physics overlord controlling an electrical maze, dictated my pace. Countless traffic lights dotted the streets, sometimes at intersections that barely seemed to exist. Halfway through, rain began to fall. I stopped at a gas station to put on my shoe protectors. The woman running the station greeted me with a kind smile and invited me inside to meet her family. This moment of warmth was a welcome break from the cold drizzle outside.

The day’s goal was Wakayama, where a ferry would take me to Shikoku. It also marked the beginning of the Pacific Coastal Road, which I had followed for over 600 km during the earlier part of my journey, starting a bit further up at Tanabe. I just love to connect the dots and see the beginning of what I started. 

The two-hour ferry ride flew by. Exhausted, I slept on the carpeted floors of the gender-separated lounges.  When I arrived, it was already dark, leaving my first impressions of Shikoku a mystery for the morning. Just 10 km inland, I found a free youth campground nestled along the beachfront. But, as you might have guessed by now, I wasn’t about to crawl into my sleeping bag without first steam-cleaning myself in an onsen. This one had recently been renovated and, to my delight, was tattoo-friendly. Inside, men with yakuzaesque full-body tattoos transformed into strawberry mochis in the scorchingly hot baths. The highlight for me was the matcha tea pool. Its bright, mountain-dew-green color was intriguing at first sight but turned out to be deeply relaxing.

Then 5 km were left to the campsite, where a family was using the provided BBQ area. To not seem intimidating while appearing from out of the forest, I made myself known with a broken “Watashi wa Tarik desu.” Just minutes later, the first “Kanpai” was said, and we even lit some firecrackers.


## Day 34 - Shikoku is pure nature

As predicted, the weather forecast was right, and rain poured all night. So, I decided to sleep without my tent on the elevated wooden patio with a roof. Unfortunately, I hadn’t considered the new threat of mosquitoes, which feast on humans along the coast. While only my face poked out of the sleeping bag, and my AirPods silenced every sound, the mosquitoes devoured my face all night. I didn’t realize it until it was morning, and by then, my face was covered in bites.

Regardless, hearing the waves crash and smelling the salt in the air helped me shake off the discomfort and enjoy the morning dip. After 40 km, I faced an important decision: Should I head inland to save 20 km and 300 m of climbing, or stick to the coast and tackle the more difficult route? The decision was tougher than I liked. I passed the initial intersection, but in that moment, my instinct kicked in. I remembered that the fun part is going the extra mile because the rewards of empty roads and physical exhaustion are inherently desirable. So, I turned around and made one of the best decisions of my journey.

After an initial climb, I emerged through an ascending tunnel into a different universe. At 150 meters, the first untouched coastline appeared, and I was riding through the lushest bamboo-covered mountains. The sun was shining in a light haze of clouds, visible like a golden yolk in a nest of egg-white clouds. My mind entered a state of serenity, and the imagery soaked into me in a surreal, almost psychedelic way. It felt as though I had experienced this moment a thousand times, yet the next second, it felt like the first time. I think I need to drink more water.

Winding down the coast like on the back of a snake, suddenly I heard heavy rustling in the trees above me. One, two, maybe three—no, actually four— Japanese snow monkeys swung from branch to branch before disappearing into the mountains. I stood there in awe.

Before dawn, I arrived at the village where I would stay for the night. At a charming 90s-era hotel, I enjoyed the onsen service and a relaxing soak in the 48°C pool, with a scenic view of the breaking waves.

Back at the campsite, with the rain pouring again, I repeated the same procedure as the night before: sleeping on a wooden patio without a tent. Maybe I’m starting to get lazy.

## Day 35 - Why Would You Leave Paradise?

This morning, I became conscious of my routine. Every day, I pack up, check my Komoot, and hit the road. After just a few minutes, I instinctively stopped and said to myself, "Ey, Tarik, why keep searching when you're already in paradise?" Against my usual instincts, I retraced the road I had taken the day before and headed back to Shishikui Beach. I leaned my bike against a pole and walked down to the shoreline. Inspiration struck, and I decided to write my first haiku:

Golden sands glisten,
waves hum—thought slips with the tide.
A hawk's cry pierces.

I fell asleep, and when I woke up, surfers appeared, riding the waves. Trusting my gut, I noticed a shack just up the street. The owner had been kind the day before, giving me directions to the campsite, so I decided to check it out. He seemed about to leave when I arrived, but he greeted me warmly. He offered to hook me up with a board and wetsuit for a good deal, and how could I decline?

It was the first time I entered the Pacific on this trip, and waiting 35 days for this moment truly paid off.
