---
layout: post
category: japan
---

In the spring of 2023 I travelled back to Japan to bike my first bikepacking trip outside of Norway, and my first long bike trip!
I've never cycled for more than three days straight, so my two week plan was quite a step up!
Originally I had planned to cycle in Hokkaido, but while researching bikepacking routes I discovered that it would be quite cold cycling so far north.
Going further south sounded like a good idea, and Kyūshū looked really promising.

So with Kyūshū as my area I started searching for routes and looking at maps.
I quickly found out that Cape Sata is a good starting point, as it's the southern most point of the main Japanese islands.
So starting from there I quickly mapped out a route going north all the way up to Kitakyushu.
While mapping the first version of the route I found interesting points on the way, and learned about Yakushima.
Yakushima looked like a beautiful island for cycling and hiking!
Factoring a couple of days for Yakushima, and that cycling the last bit till Kitakyushu, Beppu seemed like a better goal for my trip.

TODO: Write more about how my trip ended the way it did

## Verdict (TL;DR)

## The route

[The original route (on RideWithGPS)](https://ridewithgps.com/collections/1990719?privacy_code=sjGdcBtTYmzWqgGD)

I used RideWithGPS.com to plan my whole route.
Instead of making the perfect route from the beginning I made several different routes.
Starting big, and then narrowing it down for a more realistic route.
The original plan was to bike around Yakushima, and all the way from Cape Sata to Beppu, but as you can see, I skipped Yakushima and skipped some parts on the way.

## Transportation

My original plan was to fly down and take the Shinkansen back to Tokyo, but bringing big luggage on the Shinkansen looked like to much hassle.
It was also cheaper to book a flight early, and a lot easier with luggage.
So in the ended I flew down to Kagoshima, and returned from Oita airport.

## Challenges

My biggest challenge, or hurdle for the trip was finding vegetarian food in the more remote areas of my trip.
The convenience stores always have a selection, from egg sandwich (tamago sando), bao buns, to onigiri.
Usually I ended up looking for Indian or western food like pizza.
Asking for vegetarian in a local Japanese restaurant often didn't lead to any success.
Breakfast at hotels was usually easier, as they had buffet where I usually could grab vegetables without the meat.
Plus there where always miso soup, and bread and jam.

The challenge with vegetarian dinner also made tenting a little bit harder, as I didn't bring my camping stove to make my own food.
So I was dependent on either eating before tenting, or be able to cycle to a restaurant after pitching my tent.

Other challenges on my trip is remembering that a lot of restaurants are closed in the middle of the day, so if I wanted a better lunch I needed to have that planned.
Also a lot of places to visit closes around five (17:00), so I usually needed to visit them before I arrive at my place to stay for the night.

My last type of hurdle on the trip, which was mainly me not reading a sign, or ignoring a closed road, as some roads where taken by landslide, typhoon, or earthquake.
Twice, on the same day, I experienced that the road or a bridge was destroyed.
I could have avoided the last one, if I had translated a sign instead of gambling that it wasn't anything important, as only have of the road was closed.
Which led me to first cruise down 3km, and then cycling up again, in the rain.

## What I'm happy I did

I'm really glad that I took some days to hike in between all the cycling.
Especially the full day hike in Kuju mountains was really nice.
Kuju mountains was also a really good place to hike.
As you could go for a shorter route up to Kujusan, or decided to hike all the small tops in the vicinity.
If that wasn't enough, you could always choose to hike down to Chojabaru Visitor Center, as I did.

I can also recommend planning for shorter cycling days, so that you have time to get of your bike to explore, and arrive early at you stay for the night.
Also really happy that I visited an onsen nearly every day of my trip!
Arriving tired and cold, either at a campsite or hotel, and then going to visit an onsen afterwards was really nice!
It's also a good way to clean of all the filth from the day.

PS: Remember that public baths/onsen doesn't have free towels, so bring your own (or buy it there).

## Essentials

I'm pretty pleased with my gear for this trip, and I feel like all the shorter trips I've been on before had prepared me for this.
Some of the items around during the trip, when I found it fitted better in a different bag.
I also doubled up on cycle tube (I was riding tubeless), and cycling shorts, both of these I'm pretty sure was unnecessary for my trip.
Of course you don't really know when your going to have a flat, but I didn't have any, so felt that having two tubes was a bit much.
Especially as I always traveled from city to city.
Doubling up on the cycling kit was also a bit much, I just made sure to remember to wash it regularly.
Either wash it in the sink or, if the hotel had a washing room, a quick wash in a machine made it good for the next day.

One thing I was missing was a long sleeved cycling jersey, as it sometimes was too warm with a jacket, but too cold for short sleeves.
My solution was to use on of the long sleeves wool t-shirts underneath my cycling jersey.

I've made a list of my gear at the bottom of this post, sorted on which bag they where in.

## Accommodation

The original plan was to camp every night for my two week trip.
I managed two days before I ended up in my first of many hotels.
The main reason (as mentioned in challenges) is that it was easier to find food near hotels in the cities, instead of the camping sites that was a bit outside the cities.
Other reasons was the price for campsite compared to hotels, and the ease of staying at a hotel, instead of staying hunkered inside my tent for a whole evening.

Except for one free campsite, both my campsite was ¥4000, and even thought the hotels was mostly double that, I felt staying at a hotel was a better experience and value for money.
Even better was the night I stayed at the [Aso Base hostel](http://www.aso-backpackers.com/), which was ¥2800 for one night in a shared room.
Can really recommend that place, and I bet that hostels in more smaller city will be as cozy.

### What would I change for my next trip

When planning the trip I should find a way to take into account that some days I will be tired, or that it will rain too much (for me).
In short, I need to plan for some buffer days.
On this trip I had one whole day at a hotel early on because of rain, but it was also good since I was tired.
I also arrived two days earlier than planned to my destination, meaning I kinda had three buffer days.
Three days is a bit too much, I think it will work with two days, and also plan for some easier days.
Most of my short days had either long day of hiking, or a steep hill to climb.

Arriving two days earlier in Beppu meant that I had to "sit" and wait for my flight back to Tokyo.
Not sure if booking the flight in advance was the best use of my time.
That may just be me being restful.
As I did get to see and experience Beppu!
The main problem was probably that it was too expensive to stay on the hotel I had booked in advance, so I had to change hotel.
Not sure what I will do here for my next trip.

What I am pretty sure I'll skip on my next trip is camping.
Camping in Kyūshū in April wasn't as warm as I had predicted.
Mostly when I've been bikepacking in Norway I end up biking the whole day, so when the tent is pitched I could just go to sleep.
On this trip I was often at the camp site around five or six, still plenty of time for some local sightseeing or reading my book.
When the weather is nearing 10 and below, it's not that nice to sit outside to read, meaning I ended up hunkered in my sleeping bag.
I'm doing that to much on my local trips that I want to do that on this types of trips.
Maybe If I had traveled later in the season this wouldn't had been a trouble at all.
My night south of Mount Aso was really cold, I had to put on all my clothes during the night to not freeze!
Next trip I'm probably going to plan it with hotel stays in mind.
I'm also going to save a bit on weight too skipping camping equipment.

I also need to remember that luggage storage may close before I land my plane, so always double check.
This time I ended up bringing my bike to my hotel in Tokyo, and then having to travel back to the airport to get it stored the day after.

## My trip

### Day 1, 63km, 1300m - Biking the Ibusuki skyline

My trip started sunday April the 2th from Kagoshima, which is south in Kyūshū.
The goal for the whole trip was to bike from Cape in the south, all the way to Beppu in the noth.
First I needed to get down to Cape Sata, so I biked the scenery skyline down to Ibusuki.
From the skyline you will several beautiful sightseeing spots towards the Kagoshima Bay and the Sakurajima volcano.

My first day of biking ended at a camping ground at shores of Lake Ikeda, with the Kaimondake volcano as my backdrop.
I hadn't planned for dinner, so I didn't make the closing hours of the local restaurant.
Luckily they had some tofu and rice in the camp store, so I managed to get a basic meal.

### Day 2, 65km, 780m - The ferry over Kagoshima bay

Today was a real sightseeing day!
I visited my first onsen on this trip, where I also experienced sand bathing.
The sand near the onsen is naturally heated, so they burrow you in the sand for 10 minutes.
It was a fun thing to try out, but I do enjoy regular onsen better.
Luckily they have both.

After the nice relaxing bathing I took the ferry over the bay to Minamiosumi.
There where a lot of eagles near the coast, and all the way down to Cape Sata.
I had personally never seen that many eagles, and especially not that close.
One landed not more than 5 meters in front me while I was biking!
It quickly took flight when it understood that I was riding where it landed.
So this was a really good start for my trip.

I camped at the Sata Misaki public campsite, saving the trip to the tip till tomorrow.
It was a really quite place to camp, as I was the only one staying there, and there only one light lighting up the entrance of the toilets.
There where also no one else at the camp site, and none of the roads around had any light.
So it got pitch dark, a bit surreal, since all you could hear was the wind blowing and the birds chirping.

### Day 3, 90km, 1500m - Heading north

Today the trip finally headed north!
I started the day by visiting Cape Sata and look out towards the sea!
There was also a sign on the way back telling me it was 2600km to Cape Soya!
Hopefully one day I will have biked all they way there.

I decided to have a little detour on my way to the camping site in Kanoya.
The goal was to see a waterfall, but I used Google Maps to find it, and it took me to the top of the waterfall instead of the entrance.
Meaning I couldn't see it from the bottom, as the entrance was a too big of a new detour.

The plan for this night was also to camp, but again I hadn't really researched restaurants around the camp site.
It turns out the camp site was on a small, but steep hill, with no restaurant nearby.
Meaning I had to ride down to find some food and visit an onsen, and the get back up the hills.
It also didn't help that the camping site hadn't opened for the day when I arraived.
So instead I went to a bike friendly hotel, that also had it's own onsen!
This turned out to be a trend of my trip, using hotels instead of all the camp sites I originally had planned.

I also tried my luck at finding a vegetarian-friendly restaurant.
Even thought I didn't find one that had vegetarian food on the menu, they did manage to cook me something I could eat.

### Day 4, 87km, 1700m - Over the mountains and closed roads

Today was going to be a long and hard day.
Instead of riding straight to Kirishima to avoid the rain, I was determined to follow my original route going over mount Onogara.
I didn't know much about the route, as the photos on Google Maps was quite old, but it looked possible.
The day started cloudy, and it started to rain half way up mountain.
I took a short detour to visit the Narunoo Ranch and to go to the bathroom, as I didn't want to risk going in the forest.
It was a good choice as there wasn't a toilet well past getting down the mountain on the other side!

The first hurdle today was the locked gate blocking the road I wanted to take.
Luckily the fence ended at the side of the road, so I managed to sneak around it easily.
There was a reason to fence of this road, as it had some hurdles on the way.
It started off okay, mostly gravel that sometimes turned to big gravel, and some short parts of tarmac.

After about an hour with bad gravel I came to where a bridge had been before!
Turns out the road was closed because a bridge and next kilometer of road was gone!
As I wasn't that keen to return and there was little water in the new river, I managed to cross by lifting my bike up on to some old concrete blocks.
After that I just had to hike a bike through the worst road I've ever ridden!

While hiking I was curious if other bridges would been taken by a storm, suddenly I noticed some clear car tire marks in the mud!
This had to mean that someone had driven a car all the way up here from the other side recently.
Turns out it was true, and I could ride most of the way back down on the other side!
The road wasn't good the rest of the way, but at least I managed to get down in one piece and could continue on the main road all the way to Kirishima!

The rain had started while I was heading down the mountain, so I had about 50km left on the main road next to cars before I would be at my hotel.
Biking in the rain next to cars and trailers will get tiring after I while.
So when I only had about 20km left I decided to take a little detour on a road going down to a different main road.
I hoped to finally get a little break from the cars, but I forgot to double check why half of the road was closed, and ended up cycling down a closed road.
This time it was really closed, as the whole road had collapsed and gone down the hill, so there was no way for me to pass.
I just had to cycle up again and follow the main road.

After a long day I finally arrived at hotel Kyocera, which turns out to have church inside it, with a huge ruby socket into a cross!
Sadly I can't find anything about it searching with English terms.

With the bad weather continuing the next day I decided to stay here for an extra night.

### Day 5, 39km, 1260m - Heading up to Ebino plateau

After a complete rest day in Kiroshima it was time to head on.
This time the goal was Ebino plateau to visit mount Karakuni.
The day started gray with a light rain around 0 meters above sea level, and I was set to cycle all the way up to 1200 meters!

On the way I visited my first foot bath, which was nice.
I also got to see three different native animals working my was up the hills!
First I saw a small Japanese boar, then a Japanese martens was running next to me for a short wild.
Right before I was at the top a Kyūshū sika deer jumped across the road!

It was really foggy when I arrived at the top, and getting cold.
So I treated my self to another night at a hotel, getting used to this life style.

### Day 6, 7km, 500m - Mount Karakunidake and a bus ride

Today hiking was on the itinerary.
The main goal for today was to hike all the way up to the top of mount Karakunidake, my first volcano at a close distance.
Karakunidake is on 1700 meters, and is not an active volcano anymore, but it's neighbor Shinmoedake on the other hand had an eruption as late as 2011!
So I could still see it smoking looking over to it.
I had to admire it from a distance as I wasn't allowed to visit it.

The hike up was pretty easy, but it was a rather windy day.
So there was no reason to stay long on the top, even thought the view was fantastic.
To get a different scenery on the way back I decided to go towards Onami-ike crater, which is full of water.
I didn't go up to the crater, but followed the valley back to the hotel.
If I had had more time, I would love to do some more hikes in the area, as it was really beautiful!

The next goal on my itinerary was to catch a bus heading from Ebino to Kumamoto.
The bus would let me skip the next two mountain passes on my way to Yamato, on the other side of mount Kunimi.
This was so I would get a better weather window visiting mount Aso and hiking the Kuju mountains.
It also helped me save a lot of energy, because cycling over mount Kunimi would be quite a feat.
Hopefully I will be back for a revenge!

### Day 7, 82km, 1400m - Bridges and hills

Another long day with more than 1000 meters of ascending!
This time I cycled from Kumamoto, to Yamato to see the Tsūjun bridge, before going over Shimizu pass to ride down into Aso.
The road to Aso, especially from Yamato went on quiet and secluded roads with nearly no traffic.
I can really recommend road 141 onto 319 going from Yamato to Aso.

It was a pretty relaxing day of cycling, even though a long one.
I got to eat at an American sandwich bar with huge portions, as Americans do like.
After that I visited Tsūjun bridge, which is an important aqueduct bridge for delivering water to the Shiraito plateau.
In Yamato where the bridge was they also have a festival called Hassaku where they create these huge creations called Otsukurimono in Japanese.
These was really cool to look at, so I'm really glad I planned the route through Yamato.

While riding out of Kumamoto I also noticed the first of many cool designer manhole covers that are supposedly every where in Japan!

### Day 8, 45km, 1000m - Aso Mountain

Aso Mountain ligger egentlig i et stort krater, men det er heldigvis bare dette fjellet som fortsatt er aktivt.
Det var en fin dag, og jeg fikk en guidet helikoptertur rundt fjellet og krateret!
Det gjorde at jeg fikk sett nedi, og ikke bare fra siden, på avstand! Det var skikkelig gøy!

På veien ned så endte jeg opp på et hostel, og traff folk fra Tyskland, Frankrike, Kina, og Japan. Skikkelig sosialt!

### Day 9, 56km, 1100m - To the Kuju mountains

Dagens sykkeltur gikk fra en fjellkjede, til en annen.
Målet var en campingplass hvor jeg skulle sove i en togvogn (glemte helt å ta bilde)!
Jeg var også på sykkelturens høyeste punkt på 1330m!

### Day 10, 18km, 970m - Hiking the Kuju mountains tops

Dagen startet med tett tåke og lett regn, men det lettet utpå formmidagen!
Målet var Kyūshū høyeste fjell på 1791m! Det ble også en tur til en onsen oppe i fjellene.
På hva som lignet på en DNT-hytte.

### Day 11, 51km, 570m - The end of the road (Beppu)

Siste sykkeldag for turen.
Jeg kjente det i kroppen og i psyken at det kom til å bli deilig å være fremme, å kunne slappe av en hel dag uten å tenke på sykling eller hvor jeg skulle videre.
Underveis på turen hadde jeg endret hvor jeg skulle overnatte nesten hver dag, så brukte litt for mye tid på å se etter nye steder å sove.

Turen til Beppu gikk veldig fint, og det var som det har vært igjennom hele turen, mye flott utsikt å oppleve!
Litt mer trafikk i dag, da jeg valgte å følge en turistvei over et fjellpass, men heldigvis flott og bred vei hele veien.

### In Beppu city

Jeg kom frem til Beppu to dager tidligere enn planlagt, som ga meg god tid til å utforske byen.
Jeg startet med en tur til de syv helvetene (Jigoku) i Beppu. Dette er 7 (finnes flere) varme kilder som er for varme til å bade i.

Beppu er onsen hovedstaden i Japan, så det er mange å velge mellom.
En av de mer spesielle er en “gjørme” onsen, hvor man bader i noe som føltes mer ut som sølevann.

Jeg besøkte også et apetempel, hvor de mater aper for å unngå at de stjeler fra de som bor i området rundt.


## My gear

I went for pretty a lightweight setup, so it will probably not fit everyone.

### Seat post bag

- Sleeping bag
- Spare cycling kit in the bottom
- Light hiking shoes on top
- Tent poles (in the beginning)
- Cycling rain jacket
- Fleece
- Simple bike lock (mostly a requirement from my insurance company)

### Half Frame bag

I also had two 0.6l water bottles in my frame, plus a bottle for bike tools underneath.

- Passport
- Credit card
- Charging cables and adapter
- Headlight (need to be changed for one that fit my helmet)
- Battery bank (30 000mah/111wh, which was too big)
- First aid kit
- Tissue paper (never used, convenience store always gave me wet wipes)
- Spectacle case (I wear glasses)

### Right fork bag

- Rest of the tent (MSR Hubba Hubba NX 2 person)
- Room for food

### Left fork bag

- Sleeping mat
- Clothes maybe needed through the day
- One pair of Black Diamond climbing pants (perfect for bikepacking, they are comfortable and look stylish)

### Big handlebar bag

- Two spare tubes
- Change of clothes
  - Two pair of wool boxes
  - Two pair of wool socks
  - One pair of thick bike socks (too warm for Kyūshū in April)
  - One pair of cotton bike socks
  - One Northern Playground grandfather shirt
  - One Northern Playground hooded shirt
- Wind breaker

### Small handlebar bag

- Nook ebookreader
- Snacks

### Top tube pack

- Mobilephone
- Snack

### Cycling kit

- Pedaled wool jersey
- 7mesh cargo bib
- One pair of Pedaled wool bike socks
- Quoc Gran Tourer Black Gum bike shoes

### The bike

- Fara Gravel Adventure 2020

### Afterthoughts about my gear

I should probably had brought legs instead of knees as part of the cycling kit.
Since if it first was cold, it didn't help that much with just knees.
Arms wasn't that useful either, especially since I had a fleece, rain jacket, or long sleeves to put on when it was cold.

My Northern Playground shirts was really nice to have.
They are good at keeping warmth, but also not getting to hot in the sun.
Should probably had one with a high neck instead of the short neck one.

Having two pairs of gloves was also really nice, one short and one long.
The long pair was also nice for the hikes I went on.
